>> Kyle Simpson: So the idea that we've
just ignored or allowed to accrete over
time, we've ignored or allowed to
accrete over time this complexity
of the way caching technology works and
not really worried about it.
We've essentially allowed browsers to
worry about that problem instead of us.
And we just say well, if I throw out some
expires headers, that's good enough.
And the truth is it isn't good enough.
The truth is that it is our responsibility
as the builder of a web experience,
I think, this is my opinion, that it's
our responsibility as the builder of
a web experience to ensure that the person
gets to continue to experience as much
of that as possible regardless of
the conditions that they may be in.
If their Wi-Fi goes out, if there's
a storm and the cell towers are knocked
down, they should not be completely
lost in that web experience.
Now, it's entirely true that your
web experience may be very dynamic.
There may be things that
they won't be able to get.
A while just recently I was tweeting
about this because Twitter has
a progressive web app.
And this happens to me all the time,
that I'm scrolling through my timeline.
And by the way, I use the latest tweets
timeline because whatever Twitter keeps
trying to do with the most
relevant is complete nonsense.
But I'm scrolling through my latest tweets
timelines, so I'm kinda going back,
seeing what have I missed
in the last hour or two.
And then, I go get on a plane and my wi-fi
is turned off and I open up Twitter, and
I get a Twitter app,
their progressive web app is there and
my timeline's completely gone.
And I was tweeting about this, and
I was saying why is it that we call this
a progressive web app, but it's nothing
useful whatsoever to me if it's a blank
screen that I can't see any content.
And I tweeted about this.
Obviously, ironically, I'm tweeting
about my frustrations with Twitter.
But I tweeted about this because
there's more than just the Twitter
progressive web app that does this.
I tweeted about it, and
I said wouldn't it be great [LAUGH]
if my timeline was still there?
And what I got was all these myopic
responses from people like well,
there's no possible way that Twitter could
cache the entire stream of billions of
tweets in your website.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
that's not what I was asking for, is it?
>> Kyle Simpson: And actually,
when I say that in that sarcastic way,
that's actually
the prevailing mindset that
drives product managers to
design shitty products.
Pardon my French, but it's what causes
them to design that, is because they're
not thinking from the perspective of
what would I want in that position?
They're not using their
basic human empathy to say
if I got on the plane
what would I want to see.
I don't need to see
the entirety of all Twitter.
I don't need them to somehow break
the laws of quantum mechanics and
download information to my phone
when I have no Internet connection.
You know what I want?
The same timeline that I
was already looking at.
>> Kyle Simpson: How about
the hundred tweets before and
the hundred tweets after the current
tweet that I'm looking at?
Is that too much to ask?
And yet, we don't build stuff like this,
cuz we don't think and we don't care.
>> Kyle Simpson: This is
what I'm talking about.
This is why I say that every single
website on the Internet needs to change
the way they think about the information
that is presented to people and
the experiences.
And they're not always gonna be perfect,
but
they oughtta not just be
blank unusable screens.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
when we get into the stuff today,
what we're gonna be doing is
we have this very simple site,
it's kind of like a very primitive
sort of a blogging site, right?
And the idea is if I'm on a blog,
I wanna be able to navigate
the blogs that I've seen.
I don't necessarily,
I definitely don't need to see
brand new blogs that you've posted
since the last time I was online.
But I need to be able to see all
the stuff that I saw while I was online.
And that is just a website.
Now, we're gonna do a little bit
of handling of dynamicism, and
we'll talk about variety of
strategies around dynamic stuff.
Because every single product and
every single experience is gonna
have a slightly different
nuanced answer to that question.
When you click a button
to Tweet something and
you're not online, Twitter has to
decide what do I do with that?
Do I pretend as if it tweeted and then
later synchronize that and send it out?
Do I tell you, nope,
it didn't tweet cuz you're not online?
Do I do somewhere in the middle?
Do I save it and tell you I didn't tweet
it but it's saved, when you come back
online, here's gonna be your tweet and
then you can click the button to tweet it?
Or any gray area in between.
And I can't tell Twitter
what the right answer is.
I can certainly complain about it, but
I can't tell what the right answer is.
But what I can tell them is,
it is clear that somebody's
not thinking about this stuff.
And they're not thinking about it at
your site or your site or your site.
And I'm not trying to pick on you.
But I experienced this
really terrible web, and
I can tell you where almost
nobody's thinking about this stuff.
How do we gracefully fall back, not only
when the Internet is completely down, but
let's even think about what would you do
if somebody had an Internet connection and
they clicked the tweet button, but
it's so slow that it takes minutes and
it hasn't actually responded
that the tweet came out.
They have Internet connection,
they're not offline.
It's just they're on such terrible 2g that
we don't even know whether the information
got to the server.
So it's not relevant to me what the server
does, that's a totally separate concern.
What's relevant to me in this question
is how are you gonna handle that
for the user?
What are you gonna tell them?
Are you gonna tell them sorry,
you've lost your tweet?
That's what happens to me on Twitter.
When I click a tweet button to send off
a tweet, and I happen to have been online
when I started, but I'm offline at that
moment to go send a tweet, it goes away.
Poof!
It's just gone.
So I can tell you they're
not thinking about it.
Or if they're thinking about it,
they're not implementing it, or
they're not testing it, or something.
Because that is not what a user wants,
to just have, poof, it's gone.
I thought it went out and it didn't
go out, and then I go back later and
nobody ever saw that tweet.
I didn't get all my likes.
I mean, this is a critical crisis.
Okay?
So hopefully that sets up for
you what I'm talking about why this is so
important for
us to think about this differently.
And I'm not gonna try to convince you that
you should make every single experience
that you've ever created into an
installable app on somebody's home screen.
We're not gonna talk about that stuff.
But what we are gonna talk
about is using this technology
to try to improve the experiences for
users, specifically on websites.
Whether your website is completely static,
or totally dynamic, or somewhere in
between, there is some strategy that you
can use this technology to implement.